HALL PASS PLEASE
================

Hall Pass Please is a document-checking role-playing game.  Navigate the
minefields of high school politics while attempting to bring order to the
hallways, earn extra credit, and perhaps even find a date for prom.

Hall Pass Please is an homage to (or ripoff of) Papers Please from 3909.


Story
=====

You are a student at Arizotska High School.  Go Smoking Lemurs!
You've enlisted as hall monitor for extra credit in your social studies class.
Perform your duties well, and you will bring peace and honor to the hallways.
Blow it, and you will have to attend summer school.


Mechanics
=========

All actions are performed by clicking/tapping and dragging, on documents and
various tools.

The game screen is split into three panes.  Along the top is a wide view of a
school hallway, where students walk by.  On the bottom right is your
interactive work area, where documents can be freely arranged and studied.  A
small pane at the bottom left contains a chat-style transcript of the current
conversation.

Extra credit points will be awarded for allowing and denying students properly
and preventing shenanigans, without bothering faculty.  If enough points are
collected by the end of the year, the extra credit will save you from summer
school.

Students passing by should stop at the center of the screen and talk to you.
If one fails to do so, blowing your whistle will alert them (and any security
guards present).  Faculty do not need to stop, but some may talk anyway.
Interrogating a faculty member for a hall pass is usually a bad idea.

Hallway
-------

Depending on the day and scenario, the hallway may have a number of features.

Lockers
  Most hallways will contain many lockers, at which students might stop to
  take or leave items.

Fountain
  A drinking fountain may be present, at which somebody might stop and/or turn
  around.

Fire alarm
  If you or a student pulls the fire alarm, your hall monitor shift will end
  and you will need to explain what happened.

Work area
---------

The work area can contain many documents, which contain important pieces of
information that that the player will need to use to decide whether to permit
or deny passage to a student, or even give them detention.

Rule sheet
  Every day, a rule sheet is issued which explains the protocols expected to
  be observed.  A brief, outline-form version of the day's rule sheet stays in
  the work area.

Notebook
  The notebook contains a list of teachers along with their respective
  departments, room numbers, and sample signatures.

Map
  A map of the school shows your current station and the locations of all the
  rooms.  It can be used to verify whether a student's story checks out.

Whistle
  Using the whistle will call anybody in the hallway (and any nearby security)
  to attention.  Security guards can escort stubborn students or catch any who
  try to run away.

Trash
  Forged documents, contraband, and other junk can be thrown away.

Trapper keeper
  Your own notes or other items (including bribes) can be stowed in your
  trapper keeper.

Approved / denied stamps
  Stamping a student's pass (or a stub, if they have none) will allow them to
  continue on their way or send them back.

Hall pass
  Upon encountering a student, you will prompt them for their hall pass.  A
  valid hall pass will be signed by a faculty member.  It may also specify a
  time range, be stamped, or contain other information depending on the rules
  of the day.

Student ID
  Depending on the rules of the day, a student may be required to present his
  or her student ID as well.  It will contain their photo, class, ID number,
  birthday, gender, and other information.

Conversation transcript
-----------------------

When an encounter begins, everything said appears in the transcript window,
which can be scrolled back to verify information or point out discrepancies.

The transcript window also contains a clock and calendar.


Progression
===========

As the game continues, more elements are introduced.  The order and specific
days when new mechanics or sub-stories begin can vary depending on choices and
performance.

+ mechanics
  + pass inspection
    - signature validation
    - stamp validation
  + student id inspection
    - name and photo matching
    - class verification
  + map validation
    - route check
  - whistle
  + contraband
    - gum ban
    - slap bracelet ban
    - egg ban
  + detention
    - tempered detention
+ story
  + prom
    - send an anonymous valentine
    - let something slide
    - hold this
  + underground
    - detention to forgers
... 

Pass inspection
  Your hall monitor duties begin today.  Make sure all students passing by
  have a signed hall pass from their teacher.  Teachers are listed in your
  notebook.

Signature validation
  Forged hall passes have been discovered.  Your notebook has been updated
  with authentic teacher signatures.  Deny passage to anyone without a
  properly-signed pass.

Stamp validation
  As an additional security measure, all hall passes must now be stamped.
  Stamp shapes are assigned by department.  Valid stamps have been added to
  your notebook.

Whistle
  In reaction to recent hallway shenanigans, additional security has been
  recruited, and each hall monitor will now be issued a whistle.  Blow it to
  call security over to help you deal with troublemakers.

Contraband
  Hall monitors are to confiscate any contraband found on passing students.
  A list of contraband has been added to your notebook.

Detention
  You now have the authority to assign detention to students without proper
  passes or identification.

Tempered detention
  Due to abuse of hall monitor power, a reason must be documented when
  assigning detention.  Forms for reporting discrepancies have been provided.


random ideas
+ stamps from different departments - science, english etc
  - science: atom, flask, frog
- forged rules-of-the-day document
- upcoming dance
- kids going off to take drivers test
+ underground organization
  - looking to overthrow corrupt student president
+ power to give detention
  - some monitors abusing power, need to specify reason
- contraband: gum, water balloons, cigarettes, trendy bracelets, cards
+ other hall monitors
  - some always corrupt/lenient, makes you all look bad, troublemakers route
